# Reflection

For the most part our dashboard came out exactly as envisioned in the sketch. The major differences including a background colour change, the lack of a bee icon next to the dashboard title, and most importantly, the lack of a slider for the map’s time period.

There were a few problems we ran into when creating the dashboard, most of which had to do with independent data wrangling processes that were incompatible with the different plot types. Since we don’t want three different instances of data wrangling for the same set of data, we had to standardize the data wrangling process and adapt the plot’s code accordingly.  For the time series and stacked bar charts this didn’t provide much of a problem since they are very similar plots, but it did cause difficulties for the geographic map. In particular, since the geoshape in altair seems to convert the data into json, datetime data types were unable to be used in the data set for this plot. This problem was fixed by removing this column specifically for this plot.

Another unforeseen problem, was that the impacted colony percentage in the stressor plot can go above 100%. By checking the information provided by the USDA in conjunction with the data we learned that since multiple stressors can affect a colony at the same time the percentages when stacked can go above 100. We recognize that this will likely cause users confusion and we added a note to explain this. Perhaps, a stacked bar chart wasn’t the best idea and could be replaced with separate bars for each stressor.

The slider for the map time period was changed to a dropdown menu because it seemed to be less convenient to select an exact time period using the slider. However, in the future it would make more sense to change the period for the time series and stacked bar plot to a dual slider for a couple of reasons. First, it would be more convenient to have a single widget to control the time period visualized for these plots. Second, it is currently possible for a user to select and end data earlier than the start date, which doesn’t make sense and creates empty plots. A dual slider would eliminate this problem.

Overall, we are very happy with our dashboard as it does exactly what we wanted it to do. Future changes include the aforementioned dual slider, aesthetic changes such as removing the loss percentages text on the map (as it creates clutter, and the information can be obtained from the tooltip), and adding interactivity to the stressor plot. For example, being able to select a stressor type from the legend and have that be the only stressor reflected in the plot would be very useful as it would be easier to compare the impacts of a single stressor type over time.
